While we all enjoy being a part of grand weddings, we rarely think of the extreme lengths that the family of the bride goes to for making the day a success. While there’s been a shift towards more considerate and thoughtful ceremonies, many families still expect the bride’s family to take care of the entire wedding expenses. The marriage is looked at as a favour that the groom’s family is doing on the bride. In between trying to take care of the exorbitant expenses and fragile egos, this sacred ceremony turns into a deal brokered by both families. Tanaji Ghadge’s Basta brings forth a similar story.
Having married his elder daughter to an employed groom, Namdev Pawar (Suhas Palshikar) wants his younger daughter Swati (Sayali Sanjeev) to do the same. He doesn’t want her to be married into a famer’s family despite having a good, prospective groom, Manya (Akshay Tanksale), right there in his village. So, when they find a boy for Swati, the family begins the wedding preparations. The groom’s family expects a grand wedding and despite his poor economic condition, Namdev agrees to all their demands, including that of dowry. To meet the demands, he mortgages his farm land, exhausts his savings and even sells his wife’s jewellery. But will all his efforts ultimately bear fruit? Will this ‘deal’ ensure his daughter’s happiness?
Basta is a relevant story and one that reflects the reality of the society we live in. However, it is a proper execution that the film lacks. In trying to weave in multiple sub-plots into the narrative, the director does justice to none. The film starts off on a good note and looks promising initially. Youngsters Sayali Sanjeev and Akshay Tanksale are able performers and they show promise here as well. More focus should have been given to their stories, but the makers decide to use that time in introducing as many characters as they can to bring comic relief. This marks the downfall of Basta and from then on, there’s no bouncing back for the film.
In an average film, some actors stand out. Sayali is natural in her portrayal of Swati, while Akshay delivers a sincere performance in an entirely different role compared to his previous outings. Veteran Suhas Palshikar does justice to his part too. However, their efforts do not succeed in breaking the downward spiral of this film.